
# Launch of Data Craftsman’s Guild
## November 4, 2020

This week I officially launched the data Craftsman’s guild website! To explain the inspiration behind this initiative, I’ll give you a little back story about me. Almost 2 years ago, I was hired as a Business Intelligence Analyst at a local Utah Credit Union. I have learned a lot about data and analytics during my employment. When I first started, I was learning about databases and how to query data to create reports. Then I became more involved in Extract Transform Load (ETL) operations to push data into our data visualization tool. In the last year or so, I have really applied my labor to learning python and the many applications it has from automation to data science and from data science to web development. My favorite project at the credit union has been to develop predictive models that identify which borrowers are likely to default on their loans. In addition to building the model in python, I also developed a web application to deploy the model. I’m happy to say that we are close to full deployment. 
### Why did I create this Website?
So why did I want to create this website? And what is this website all about? Well I have learned a lot of things about data and its applications in business and life. I also learned that there are so many different programs, applications, coding languages, and tools available to accomplish data tasks. For up and coming data professionals (or craftsmen if you will) it is hard to know which tools are worth learning. This website is intended to help all data craftsman solve the problems they face using the best tools available. It also 
What is the significance of the name? The medieval term “guild” refers to a society of craftsmen who provide each other with assistance in pursuit of a common goal. Collaboration is the key to finding data driven solutions to problems that companies and organizations face. The Data Craftsman’s Guild seeks to create a community of people who are excited to help and assist fellow craftsmen as they solve the problems, they face with data driven solutions. Contrary to what some may think, the data craftsman’s guild is also for craftswomen. We value talented female data professionals and the guild benefits greatly from gender diversity.

Sincerely,
J.Rasband
